humphead parrotfish nearly a metre and a
half in length their jaws are so
powerful they can bite through rock when
they descend the feed the reef itself is
under threat
they are indiscriminate feeders taking
both rock and coral alike in their quest
for algae these fish play a large part
in the erosion of the reef the rock and
coral they swallow emerges later with a
fine sand on a single reef they can
produce tons of it every year
this soft sound forms the tropical
beaches that we find so alluring over
time the sand build up the foreman
island which is then colonized by
animals and
[Music]
trees take root the guano from thousands
of terms which have chosen to nest here
enriches the sandy soil which then can
support more plan
[Music]